New Experiences With Free Code Camp
-----------------------------------

These past couple of weeks have been super exciting as we ramp up to start working on our chosen open source projects.  After a week of work, I find that I am quite glad to have chosen free code camp!  Since we've started, I've managed to get the development environment up and running.  This was super exciting as I have never run a local web browser from my computer and it helped to give me a better understanding as to how programs like this build and run.  I've also gotten some good experience using the app.  I've been using the freeCodeCamp application to help me learn javascript, and it's interface is super easy to use and incredibly helpful.  It makes me excited to help build on this resource for other people to use.

In the past week, my group and I have been looking for issues to work on for the project.  This has proven to be a bit difficult, as the project is large and people snatch them up pretty quickly.  That being said, there is one issue about developing a challenge that interests me greatly, and I have been thinking about claiming the issue after doing a bit more research into whether or not it is a feasible first issue to take up and complete.  While it wouldn't be too hard to design a challenge, I predict that wiriting tests for it would be a bit difficult and possibly quite different from anything else I have done with coding, as they would have to follow a specific format that I don't have experience with.

Besides the open source project, I have become quite interested in Wikipedia as of last week.  I think it's really awesome how the encyclopedia is created and managed entirely by volunteers who want to give knowledge back to the world, and this is a very admirable idea to me.  I love how much these people care about passing on knowledge to other people, and it's really awesome that there are so many ways to contribute, whether you want to add information, translate, or fix old articles.  I imagine that the people doing this work are fairly selfless, as it is unpaid work, and simply want information to be accessible to more people.  I am all for that, and I think I would actually like to eventually become a contributor.

To make my first contributions, I'll probably go to the Wikipedia:Cleanup page to find small and easy issues to fix.  This will give me a good headstart into the world of Wikipedia editing.  After this, I would like to use the Category: Articles needing translations page to help translate some Japanese articles into English.  I think this would serve a great 2 fold purpose of giving back to a website I use frequently while also improving my skills in Japanese, which I have experience in through an Intermediate II level in college.  I've wanted to keep practicing and to get better at the language, and this would be a wonderful opportunity to improve my skills.

The Ted talk with Jimmy Wales was super interesting and fun to watch.  I think most of the information he gave still holds today, considering the various guides I've now read on wikipedia, but the scope of the project has definately increased.  In the video, he gave a figure of under 1 million regarding the number of articles on Wikipedia, but now there are almost 6 million.  It's incredible to me how quickly the platform grew over time.  He also mentioned that there is not a lot of controversy on wikipedia, but many of the articles I've read have talked about how edit wars and paid content adders have been a problem for the website, so his assertation does not seem to have been totally true.  Either way, it seems like a great platform to get involved with and I'm looking forward to working on it.
