Kevin Fleming
-------------

  I learned a lot from the class discussion with Kevin Fleming, and from his presentation as well.  Interestingly, as a computer science major, I have heard the name Bloomberg mentioned constantly but never truly understood what it did until listening to Kevin.  I thought it was incredible how Bloomberg manages to to work with massive amounts of data in such a short period of time so reliably.  The fact that Bloomberg had only had one major failure during Kevin's tenure is testament to how strong their systems are.  

  The most interesting part of the talk with Kevin Fleming overall was learning about the ways in which Bloomberg software developers manage to test their system to make sure it is reliable.  I love the idea of building a personal program that intentionally breaks your projects at varying levels of intensity to make sure they can get back up after a disaster; therefore, it was very interesting learning about chaos monkey, the Bloomberg program that attempts to  break down their system.  I can see why Kevin said that having a job in breaking your companies code could be so fulfilling.
  
FreeCodeCamp
------------

Last week, my group and I made a lot of progress on our project.  The group worked on a series of sorting challenges that needed solutions while I worked on picking up (Chai Assertion Library)[https://www.chaijs.com/api/] to write testing for our recursion challenge.  I also finished writing the seed for the challenge, and the other group members are working on adding a solutions and the text instructions.  I am excited to have been able to add this feature into FreeCodeCamp, as I feel that recursion is a necessary tool for computer scientists to learn.  In the next week, we are looking to pick up new issues, and possibly write more challenges for the recursion section of javascript.
