---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

WOW
---

I learned a lot this week.  Did you know remote repositories existed?  Me neither, but it's super cool.  I never realized how powerful of a tool that Git is, and to be honest, I'm glad I'm finally taking the time to learn it.  It just seemed like so much and just so scary but it's not that bad when you get the hang of it

Anyways.
--------

I did a lot this week as well.  To start things off, I had a wonderful introduction to the art of browser extentions through the small class project we have started.  I'm sorry to say I made a rookie mistake while starting this.  I managed to write the manifest file, create an icons folder, add an image and get the whole thing to git, merging it with our project repository.

Exciting!
---------

What I forgot to do was look at pull requests.  Whoops.  I got on the website and discovered that another group member had already completed the same tasks that I had, and had submitted them to be reviewed.  I realized that I probably should have checked pull requests first to review any new code.  I also realized that I should probably have placed a pull request for my own code to be revied.

whoops.
-------

Anyways, it's fine.  I still learned a lot by writing the manifest myself so that's a plus.  I righted my wrong by deleting all the files I added and pulled in my group member's work.  I was off to find new tasks to complete!  I had a great time going through the manifest that my teammate uploaded, and it was a perfect learning experience.  Were both new to javascript and web coding, and I found some syntax errors in his code so I fixed them.  After that, I fleshed out the manifest, adding a direction to use a photo as a web accessible resource.  I also added the home URL, fixed some file placement that was off, and even created my own 48 x 48 icon for the extension with a pixel-art application.  I was quite proud of my work!  I made a pull request, and am now still waiting for it to be approved.

So where are we now?
--------------------

Well, not as far as I'd like.  I have never used Javascript, so I had to spend some time learning it.  Right now we have a fairly fleshed out manifest, a license, a README, a contributing.md file, an icons folder with a (self designed) extension icon, and even a picture to use for our project.  I wish we had made some more progress, but I have neither of my teammate contacts, and only one other teammate contributed as I write this on Sunday.  However, I am happy with what I learned and the work I have done.

Out Biggest Problems?
---------------------

Communication.  Things would have been a lot easier if we had communicated, and we could have more efficiently designated the work.  In addition, I created my own problems by not looking at pull requests before writing my code.  Never doing that again.

Date of Completion?
-------------------

Well, definately not for tommorrow (monday).  But I'm at least happy with the work we have done.  It's enough to present to the class and be proud of.  I want to work hard the next couple of days and get it working by the weekend.  I don't think it should take too too long to write the scripts that we need.  I can't wait to have finished my first venture into open source!