---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

PART 1
------
   When I hear the term open source, the immediate thought that comes to my mind is collaboration.  There is no other realm in computer science that I have entered that is as community based as open source is, and one would be hard pressed to find any realm outside of computer science that can provide the same ease of entry and worldwide impact. (which is also a funny coincidence considering how anti-social coders tend to be).  
   Even more than a defining feature, however, the collaborative nature of open source is actually one of it's greatest advantages.  When working with a closed team, it can be very easy to get into a pattern of thought, where the same ideas are recycled and revamped multiple times.  In many situations, this is fantastic, as it leads to a refinement and polish of the original ideas brought into the project.  However, as any coder knows (or pretends not to know), the development process can be long, arduous, and riddled with problems that were not originally taken into account or prepared for.  Sometimes, having an outside perspective can be a lifesaver in these situations, and it can help the developers try new routes or ideas that they had never even thought of.  In an open source situation, new people are constantly entering into the development process, and they bring their ideas with them.  When developers have this kind of outside perspective, it can help push the project in a better direction, keep momentum, and improve the overall quality of the work.  Another great benefit of open vs closed source Development is the presence of more eyes, which can help to spot bugs and issues that may otherwise have passed into the project unnoticed in a closed team environment.
   While there are many benefits to open source, there can also be unfortunate detriments.  One of the greatest detriments can be found when switching from a closed source to open source environment partway through development.  This type of situation can open up the original team of workers to public scrutiny for buggy code or shortcuts that would otherwise remain hidden.  Furthermore, the amoung of code scrutiny will originally be directed at the original team because the majority of the code is written by them, wHIch can feel like a takeover from neverbefore seen people who did not witness the entire development history.  Furthermore, any data that is private and cannot be publicly viewed needs to be disconnected from the public eye.  For these reasons, It is often wise to make a project open as early as possible, and to try to avoid switching from a closed to open source environment.
   With all of the above in mind, I continue to head into a new territory for myself.  Before this class, I have had zero experience writting code or even participating in an open source environment.  Despite this, I am excited to learn how to involve myself in the process.  I have always had a great love for helping other people, and I feel like open source can be a way for me to reach people all around the world and write code that anyone can use for their own personal benefit.  This is an exciting idea for me.  On top of this, I am also excited to get involved in new projects and get more practice in a continually rewarding field.
   
PART 2
------

1. UBLOCK ORIGIN.  This is an open source project that blocks ads on web browsers.  I personally use it because many of the websites I frequent are often crowded with ads that distract from the actual content.  The alternative would be viewing ads on the internet.  In some cases, I still choose to do so and turn off my ad blocker so that good websites can benefit from the ad revenue.

2. WIKIPEDIA.  While wikipedia is not code based, it is essentially an open source encyclopedia, and it describes information on almost any subject one could be compelled to look up.  The pages and information are all provided by volunteer users and anyone can add to a page.  I use this if I ever need basic information on a subject, and the sources it provides are great for further research.  An alternative would be to use a paper encyclopedia, but errors will always remain, and a need for new information would be a need to buy new volumes.

3. VISUAL BOY ADVANCE.  Visual boy advance is a nintendo gameboy emulator that allows a user to load game roms and play nintendo gameboy games.  Back in my childhood, I loved playing gameboy, and I have a lot of nostalgia for some of those old games.  Visual boy advance allows me to find and play these games without searching for physical copies online, which can often cost hundreds of dollars today.

4. LINUX.  Linux is an operating system developed by Linus Torvalds that makes use of the GNU open source libraries.  Today, it is a wildly successful operating system with many variations due to it's open source nature.  I like using it because it's very code friendly and I enjoy it's interface.  An alternative would be buying a proprietary operating system, since computers need them to run.
