setting up a dev environment is tough
-------------------------------------

Or, at least tougher than I was expecting it to be.  Even with extremely detailed, beginner instructions on the github page of the project I decided to work with (freeCodeCamp), I still had a number of roadblocks before I was able to set up the dev environment.  I honestly could not think of any improvements to the instructions - they were as useful as I think they could've made them, considering all the different possible dev environments.  The information for getting the dev environment set up was even written in completely beginner terms; it even explained what a pull is and an upstream repository, and for the most part, it got me through the process.  However, I had a tough time dealing with windows and getting environment variables set up for running mongoDB, a dependency of the project, and this absorbed a decent portion of my time as I spiraled down internet forums trying to figure out how it works.  In the end, I got it running, and I feel like I have a much greater understanding of environment variables in windows now, but it did not make the process any less painful.

Moving on
---------

Besides just setting up the dev environment, I had my first chance to look closely at a license.  The license that freeCodeCamp uses is the BSD 3-clause license.  Inside, it states that the source and binary code can be redistributed and modified, but they must contain the same copyright and a disclaimer at the end of the license.  It also states that the copyright holder or the names of the contributors can be used to promote products derived from the source code without their permission.  At the end of the license, there is a a disclaimer which states that the code is presented as is, and any kind of expected warranty is disclaimed.  Beyond this, it also states that the creators and contributors cannot be held responsible for any damages that occur due to the usage of the software, even if there is an express warning that damages may occur.

Back to Class
-------------

It was really cool meeting Christos Bacharakis during class and hearing about his experiences at Mozilla and in open source.  It was really cool seeing the graph that he brought that showed the different realms of involvement in the Mozilla Fire-Fox realm.  I was also really inspired by all of the free and open source stuff that Mozilla does as a team.  It was really inspiring to hear about their mission to make free software and resources that are usable by everyone.  I also really enjoyed learning about the open source communities around the world.  I never knew just how big they were!  I was especially wowed when he discussed the growth of the convention Belgium growing from pea size to something so large that multiple building were needed for hundreds of talks.  It's gotten me even more excited about delving into the world of open source!
